Hello, my name is Ubaldo Acosta. I hope
you're ready to begin. Let's review the
general agenda of the Java JDBC course.
Are you ready? let's begin. Starting:
Introduction to JDBC. In this section we
will see an introduction to the SQL
language and the JDBC technology. Both
technologies are what we'll be using
throughout the course. We'll also carry
out the installation of the tools and
databases that we'll be using throughout
the course. In turn, we'll create the first
Java project using JDBC. Connecting to
the database with JDBC: Handling
connections. In this section we'll review in
more detail the management of JDBC. We'll
see the driver concept to connect to a
database using Java with JDBC. We'll also
review the types of sentences that we
have available in JDBC to communicate
with the database. Likewise, we will
review the handling of exceptions in
JDBC and create some exercises to put
into practice the management of JDBC
Reading data: Select statements. We'll review
the statements with JDBC that will allow
us to read data from the database, that
is: the Select statement. Manipulating
data: Inserting, updating and deleting
data. in this section we'll see the JDBC
statement that will allow us to insert
update and delete information from a
database. We'll study the syntax of each
one and create several exercises to
learn each one of this concept. Knowing
the structure: Metadata. In this section
we'll define the concept of metadata and
see how it can help us in our programs
with JDBC. We'll create several exercises
to put this concept into practice.
Executing Functions:
Store procedures. We'll define what
Store procedure is and what a function
is in a database.
We'll use the Oracle database as a
database manager to execute a method and
a store procedure in Oracle from Java
using JDBC. We'll create several
exercises to put this concept into
practice. Structuring our code. Data
layer. We'll learn the concept of data layer
and we create an example using JDBC. This
is an important concept when we are
working with JDBC. Applying best
practices: Design patterns in the data
layer. We'll study the design pattern
concept and will apply some design
patterns like DAO (Data Access Object) and
DTO (Data Transfer Object). These are
design patterns and we will add them to
our data layer. We'll also see how to
create a pool of connections to our
connectivity with a database and we'll
see how to connect to different
databases such as MySql and Oracle
at the same time. We'll create several
exercises to make this concept clear.
This is the general agenda of the Java
JDBC course. These are just some of the
many more topics that we'll learn
throughout this course. So, if you're
ready, let's begin :)